# Spearstake

This project is a 3D rendering application built with OpenGL, GLFW, and ImGui. It includes a block rendering system and texture loading from DDS files.

## Goals and Features

Spearstake is a small demo project I created to learn more about OpenGL and 3D rendering. It is supposed to be a voxel sandbox similar to Minecraft, with very large 3D world generation and rendering.

The project is currently in a very early stage of development, and only includes a block rendering system and texture loading from DDS files. Contributions are welcome!

### Features

- [x] 3D coordinate based block renderer (broken textures)
- [ ] Chunk system
- [ ] World generation
- [x] Player movement (as a camera)

## Project Structure

- `src/`: Contains the source files for the project.
- `src/shaders/`: Contains the vertex and fragment shader files.
- `textures/`: Contains the DDS texture files.
- `modules/`: Contains the ImGui library files, as well as other future Git submodules.
- `build/`: Contains the build files generated by CMake.

## Source Files

- [`Block.cpp`](src/Block.cpp) and `Block.hpp`: Defines the `Block` class for rendering 3D blocks.
- [`DDSLoader.cpp`](src/DDSLoader.cpp) and `DDSLoader.hpp`: Defines a function to load textures from DDS files.
- [`Position.cpp`](src/Position.cpp) and `Position.hpp`: Defines the `Position` class for handling 3D positions of blocks, not cameras.
- [`Shaders.cpp`](src/Shaders.cpp) and `Shaders.hpp`: Contains a function to load shaders from files.
- [`Window.cpp`](src/Window.cpp) and `Window.hpp`: Defines the `Window` class for creating and managing the application window.
- [`main.cpp`](src/main.cpp): The entry point for the application.

## Installation

This project's dependencies can be installed with this command in Arch Linux:

```sh
sudo pacman -S glfw-wayland glew glm glu cmake make
```

For other Linux distributions, you can install the dependencies with the following commands:

Ubuntu:
```sh
sudo apt install libglfw3-dev libglew-dev libglm-dev libglu1-mesa-dev cmake make
```

Fedora:
```sh
sudo dnf install glfw-devel glew-devel glm-devel mesa-libGLU-devel cmake make
```

Once the dependencies are installed, you can clone the repository with the following command (including submodules):

```sh
git clone https://github.com/CPlusPatch/spearstake.git --recurse-submodules
```

## Building the Project

This project uses CMake for building. To build the project, navigate to the project root directory and run the following commands:

```sh
mkdir build
cmake .
make
```

This will generate an executable in the [`build`](build) directory.

## Running the Project

After building the project, you can run the application with the following command:

```sh
./build/spearstake
```

## Running with Visual Studio Code

This project includes a [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) configuration file for building and running the project. To use this configuration, you must have the [C/C++ extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ms-vscode.cpptools) installed.

To build and run the project, you can run the `(gdb) Launch` configuration in the Debug tab, or simply press F5.

## License

This project is licensed under the terms of the [`GPL-3.0`](LICENSE) license.

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome. Please submit a pull request or create an issue to discuss the changes.

## Contact

For any questions or concerns, please open an issue on the project repository.